learning to map between ontologies on the semantic web ontologies play a prominent role on the semantic web . they make possible the widespread publication of machine understandable data , opening myriad opportunities for automated information processing . however , because of the semantic web 's distributed nature , data on it will inevitably come from many different ontologies . information processing across ontologies is not possible without knowing the semantic mappings between their elements . manually finding such mappings is tedious , error-prone , and clearly not possible at the web scale . hence , the development of tools to assist in the ontology mapping process is crucial to the success of the semantic web . we describe glue , a system that employs machine learning techniques to find such mappings . given two ontologies , for each concept in one ontology glue finds the most similar concept in the other ontology . we give well-founded probabilistic definitions to several practical similarity measures , and show that glue can work with all of them . this is in contrast to most existing approaches , which deal with a single similarity measure . another key feature of glue is that it uses multiple learning strategies , each of which exploits a different type of information either in the data instances or in the taxonomic structure of the ontologies . to further improve matching accuracy , we extend glue to incorporate commonsense knowledge and domain constraints into the matching process . for this purpose , we show that relaxation labeling , a well-known constraint optimization technique used in computer vision and other fields , can be adapted to work efficiently in our context . our approach is thus distinguished in that it works with a variety of well-defined similarity notions and that it efficiently incorporates multiple types of knowledge . we describe a set of experiments on several real-world domains , and show that glue proposes highly accurate semantic mappings . 