fastanova : an efficient algorithm for genome-wide association study studying the association between quantitative phenotype ( such as height or weight ) and single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) is an important problem in biology . to understand underlying mechanisms of complex phenotypes , it is often necessary to consider joint genetic effects across multiple snps . anova ( analysis of variance ) test is routinely used in association study . important findings from studying gene-gene ( snp-pair ) interactions are appearing in the literature . however , the number of snps can be up to millions . evaluating joint effects of snps is a challenging task even for snp-pairs . moreover , with large number of snps correlated , permutation procedure is preferred over simple bonferroni correction for properly controlling family-wise error rate and retaining mapping power , which dramatically increases the computational cost of association study . in this paper , we study the problem of finding snp-pairs that have significant associations with a given quantitative phenotype . we propose an efficient algorithm , fastanova , for performing anova tests on snp-pairs in a batch mode , which also supports large permutation test . we derive an upper bound of snp-pair anova test , which can be expressed as the sum of two terms . the first term is based on single-snp anova test . the second term is based on the snps and independent of any phenotype permutation . furthermore , snp-pairs can be organized into groups , each of which shares a common upper bound . this allows for maximum reuse of intermediate computation , efficient upper bound estimation , and effective snp-pair pruning . consequently , fastanova only needs to perform the anova test on a small number of candidate snp-pairs without the risk of missing any significant ones . extensive experiments demonstrate that fastanova is orders of magnitude faster than the brute-force implementation of anova tests on all snp pairs .