group formation in large social networks : membership , growth , and evolution the processes by which communities come together , attract new members , and develop over time is a central research issue in the social sciences - political movements , professional organizations , and religious denominations all provide fundamental examples of such communities . in the digital domain , on-line groups are becoming increasingly prominent due to the growth of community and social networking sites such as myspace and livejournal . however , the challenge of collecting and analyzing large-scale time-resolved data on social groups and communities has left most basic questions about the evolution of such groups largely unresolved : what are the structural features that influence whether individuals will join communities , which communities will grow rapidly , and how do the overlaps among pairs of communities change over time . here we address these questions using two large sources of data : friendship links and community membership on livejournal , and co-authorship and conference publications in dblp . both of these datasets provide explicit user-defined communities , where conferences serve as proxies for communities in dblp . we study how the evolution of these communities relates to properties such as the structure of the underlying social networks . we find that the propensity of individuals to join communities , and of communities to grow rapidly , depends in subtle ways on the underlying network structure . for example , the tendency of an individual to join a community is influenced not just by the number of friends he or she has within the community , but also crucially by how those friends are connected to one another . we use decision-tree techniques to identify the most significant structural determinants of these properties . we also develop a novel methodology for measuring movement of individuals between communities , and show how such movements are closely aligned with changes in the topics of interest within the communities .