trading representability for scalability : adaptive multi-hyperplane machine for nonlinear classification support vector machines ( svms ) are among the most popular and successful classification algorithms . kernel svms often reach state-of-the-art accuracies , but suffer from the curse of kernelization due to linear model growth with data size on noisy data . linear svms have the ability to efficiently learn from truly large data , but they are applicable to a limited number of domains due to low representational power . to fill the representability and scalability gap between linear and nonlinear svms , we propose the adaptive multi-hyperplane machine ( amm ) algorithm that accomplishes fast training and prediction and has capability to solve nonlinear classification problems . amm model consists of a set of hyperplanes ( weights ) , each assigned to one of the multiple classes , and predicts based on the associated class of the weight that provides the largest prediction . the number of weights is automatically determined through an iterative algorithm based on the stochastic gradient descent algorithm which is guaranteed to converge to a local optimum . since the generalization bound decreases with the number of weights , a weight pruning mechanism is proposed and analyzed . the experiments on several large data sets show that amm is nearly as fast during training and prediction as the state-of-the-art linear svm solver and that it can be orders of magnitude faster than kernel svm . in accuracy , amm is somewhere between linear and kernel svms . for example , on an ocr task with 8 million highly dimensional training examples , amm trained in 300 seconds on a single-core processor had 0.54 % error rate , which was significantly lower than 2.03 % error rate of a linear svm trained in the same time and comparable to 0.43 % error rate of a kernel svm trained in 2 days on 512 processors . the results indicate that amm could be an attractive option when solving large-scale classification problems . the software is available at www.dabi.temple.edu\/~vucetic\/amm.html .