practical guide to controlled experiments on the web : listen to your customers not to the hippo the web provides an unprecedented opportunity to evaluate ideas quickly using controlled experiments , also called randomized experiments ( single factor or factorial designs ) , a\/b tests ( and their generalizations ) , split tests , control\/treatment tests , and parallel flights . controlled experiments embody the best scientific design for establishing a causal relationship between changes and their influence on user-observable behavior . we provide a practical guide to conducting online experiments , where end-users can help guide the development of features . our experience indicates that significant learning and return-on-investment ( roi ) are seen when development teams listen to their customers , not to the highest paid person 's opinion ( hippo ) . we provide several examples of controlled experiments with surprising results . we review the important ingredients of running controlled experiments , and discuss their limitations ( both technical and organizational ) . we focus on several areas that are critical to experimentation , including statistical power , sample size , and techniques for variance reduction . we describe common architectures for experimentation systems and analyze their advantages and disadvantages . we evaluate randomization and hashing techniques , which we show are not as simple in practice as is often assumed . controlled experiments typically generate large amounts of data , which can be analyzed using data mining techniques to gain deeper understanding of the factors influencing the outcome of interest , leading to new hypotheses and creating a virtuous cycle of improvements . organizations that embrace controlled experiments with clear evaluation criteria can evolve their systems with automated optimizations and real-time analyses . based on our extensive practical experience with multiple systems and organizations , we share key lessons that will help practitioners in running trustworthy controlled experiments .