cross-language information retrieval using parafac2 a standard approach to cross-language information retrieval ( clir ) uses latent semantic analysis ( lsa ) in conjunction with a multilingual parallel aligned corpus . this approach has been shown to be successful in identifying similar documents across languages - or more precisely , retrieving the most similar document in one language to a query in another language . however , the approach has severe drawbacks when applied to a related task , that of clustering documents `` language-independently '' , so that documents about similar topics end up closest to one another in the semantic space regardless of their language . the problem is that documents are generally more similar to other documents in the same language than they are to documents in a different language , but on the same topic . as a result , when using multilingual lsa , documents will in practice cluster by language , not by topic . we propose a novel application of parafac2 ( which is a variant of parafac , a multi-way generalization of the singular value decomposition ( svd ) ) to overcome this problem . instead of forming a single multilingual term-by-document matrix which , under lsa , is subjected to svd , we form an irregular three-way array , each slice of which is a separate term-by-document matrix for a single language in the parallel corpus . the goal is to compute an svd for each language such that v ( the matrix of right singular vectors ) is the same across all languages . effectively , parafac2 imposes the constraint , not present in standard lsa , that the `` concepts '' in all documents in the parallel corpus are the same regardless of language . intuitively , this constraint makes sense , since the whole purpose of using a parallel corpus is that exactly the same concepts are expressed in the translations . we tested this approach by comparing the performance of parafac2 with standard lsa in solving a particular clir problem . from our results , we conclude that parafac2 offers a very promising alternative to lsa not only for multilingual document clustering , but also for solving other problems in cross-language information retrieval .